.TH git-chat-init 1 "@CMAKE_COMPILATION_DATE@" "git-chat @CMAKE_PROJECT_VERSION_MAJOR@.@CMAKE_PROJECT_VERSION_MINOR@" "git-chat manual"

.SH NAME
git-chat-init \- initialize a git-chat messaging space

.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
\fIgit-chat-init\fR [(-n | --name) <name>] [(-d | --description) <desc>]
\fIgit-chat-init\fR [-q | --quiet]
\fIgit-chat-init\fR (-h | --help)


.SH DESCRIPTION
Initialize a git-chat messaging space. A messaging space must be initialized before it can be used.

\fIgit-chat-init\fR calls \fBgit-init\fR(1) to first initialize the underlying git repository, and then creates git-chat configuration files and metadata.


.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-n, \-\-name
Specify a alias name for the master channel.

.TP
\-d, \-\-description
Specify a description for the space. This description is used to provide more information about what the chat space is used for.

.TP
\-q, \-\-quiet
Be more quiet. Do not print informational messages. Error messages will still be printed.

.TP
\-h, \-\-help
Print a simple synopsis and exit.

.SH FILE/DIRECTORY LAYOUT
\fIgit-chat\fR uses a rather simple directory structure. When a repository is initialized, three directories are created at the root of the working tree: \fB.git\fR, \fB.git-chat\fR, and \fB.keys\fR.

.TP
.B .git
This directory is created by \fIgit-init\fR, and is largely untouched by git-chat, with the exception of \fB.git/chat-cache\fR which contains git-chat configuration files, temporary files, and gpg keyring.

.TP
.B .git-chat
This directory is created by \fIgit-chat-init\fR. It contains channel metadata, such as the channel name and description. These files are tracked, and are therefore public to all users.

.TP
.B .keys
This directory is created by \fIgit-chat-init\fR. It contains public gpg keys for all users in the current channel. These keys are used by the users in a channel to encrypt messages. These files are tracked, and are therefore public to all users.


.SH SEE ALSO
\fBgit-chat\fR(1)


.SH REPORTING BUGS
git-chat is still a work in progress. We try our best to support as many platforms and environments as possible, but there are certainly going to be issues.

If you have any issues, please log an issue in our GitHub issue tracker at \fBhttps://github.com/brandon1024/gitchat\fR.


.SH AUTHOR
Brandon Richardson (brandon1024.br@gmail.com)