.TH git-chat 1 "@CMAKE_COMPILATION_DATE@" "git-chat @CMAKE_PROJECT_VERSION_MAJOR@.@CMAKE_PROJECT_VERSION_MINOR@.@CMAKE_PROJECT_VERSION_PATCH@" "git-chat manual"

.SH NAME
git-chat \- use a Git repository as a chatroom


.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
\fIgit-chat\fR [<options>] <command> [<args>]
\fIgit-chat\fR [\-h | \-\-help]
\fIgit-chat\fR [\-v | \-\-version]


.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIgit-chat\fR is a secure messaging application build on top of the \fIGit\fR suite. It leverages Git's ability to track content, using commit objects as messages and branches as message channels. \fIgit-chat\fR also leverages GnuPG for message signing and encryption.

If you're using git-chat for messaging, keep in mind that it should not be used as secure and tamper proof communication. It suffers from potential tampering (lost messages, erased history, etc.). Please use at your own risk.


.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-\-passphrase-fd <n>
When a passphrase is required, read the passphrase from the given file descriptor. Only the first line will be read from the file descriptor.

This option is primarily used to override the GPG engine pinentry functionality when interactive passphrase entry isn't possible (e.g. when used in scripts).

.TP
\-\-passphrase-file <file>
When a passphrase is required, read the passphrase from the given file. Only the first line will be read from the file.

This option is primarily used to override the GPG engine pinentry functionality when interactive passphrase entry isn't possible (e.g. when used in scripts).

Storing passwords in plaintext is ill advised.

.TP
\-\-passphrase <pass>
When a passphrase is required, use the supplied passphrase.

This option is primarily used to override the GPG engine pinentry functionality when interactive passphrase entry isn't possible (e.g. when used in scripts).

This option should be used with care; passwords can be leaked accidentally if this option is misused.

.TP
\-h, \-\-help
Print a simple synopsis, along with any common subcommands and options.

.TP
\-v, \-\-version
Print the current version for git-chat and its dependencies.


.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
\fBgit-chat-channel\fR(1)
Create and manage message channels.

.TP
\fBgit-chat-get\fR(1)
Fetch new messages and channels from remote repositories.

.TP
\fBgit-chat-init\fR(1)
Initialize a new git-chat messaging space.

.TP
\fBgit-chat-import-key\fR(1)
Import GnuPG public keys into a channel.

.TP
\fBgit-chat-message\fR(1)
Create new gpg-encrypted messages.

.TP
\fBgit-chat-publish\fR(1)
Publish new messages to remote repositories.

.TP
\fBgit-chat-read\fR(1)
Display and format messages in a channel.


.SH FILE/DIRECTORY LAYOUT
@DOCS_FILE_DIRECTORY_LAYOUT_SECTION@


.SH CONFIGURATION
The config file has a format similar to INI or TOML, but simplified. It consists of key-value pairs, organized in sections.

.EX
    [ section_a ]
        key_1 = value
        key_2 = valueb

    [ section_b ]
        key_1 = 123
        key_a = 321
.EE

.TP
.B Recognized Configuration Properties
Each channel may have it's own configuration. The configurations are organized by channel name in the following manner:

.EX
[channel.<rev>]
    name = <channel alias>
    createdby = <channel creator>
    description = <description>
.EE


.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
\fIgit-chat\fR uses a number of environment variables that allow you to configure how the application behaves.

.TP
\fBGIT_CHAT_LOG_LEVEL\fR
Display additional logging to the console. May have any of the following values, ordered decreasing in verbosity level:
.RS
.IP \[bu]
ALL
.IP \[bu]
TRACE
.IP \[bu]
DEBUG
.IP \[bu]
INFO
.IP \[bu]
WARN
.IP \[bu]
ERROR
.IP \[bu]
NONE
.RE

.TP
\fBGIT_CHAT_PAGER\fR, \fBGIT_PAGER\fR, \fBPAGER\fR
When output is being paged (\fIgit-chat-read\fR, for example), these environment variables may be used to specify an alternate paging program. The variable value must be the absolute path to the executable (e.g. /usr/bin/cat).


.SH EXTENDING GIT-CHAT
\fIgit-chat\fR follows a similar extension model to Git, where executables located on the PATH that are prefixed with \fBgit-chat-\fR will be invoked when \fBgit chat <extension name>\fR is run at the command line. This allows you to build custom plugins in your language of choice.


.SH SEE ALSO
\fBgit-chat-init\fR(1)


.SH REPORTING BUGS
@DOCS_REPORTING_BUGS_SECTION@


.SH AUTHOR
@DOCS_AUTHORS_SECTION@
